.TH YCLOCK 1 "2025" "yclock 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
yclock \- a simple analog and digital clock for macOS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yclock
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B yclock
is a simple clock application for macOS, inspired by xclock from X11. It provides both analog and digital clock modes with customizable appearance through configuration files and command line options.
.PP
The clock window is draggable, translucent, and floats above other windows. It updates in real-time every second and supports optional seconds display.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-digital
Start in digital clock mode
.TP
.B \-\-analog
Start in analog clock mode (default)
.TP
.B \-\-analogue
Same as \fB\-\-analog\fR (British spelling)
.TP
.B \-\-seconds
Show seconds hand in analog mode or seconds in digital mode
.TP
.B \-\-show-in-dock
Show application in Dock and Cmd+Tab switcher. By default, the app runs as an accessory and does not appear in the Dock or application switcher.
.TP
.B \-\-font-name \fINAME\fR
Specify font name for digital clock. If the font name contains spaces, enclose it in quotes.
Examples: Menlo, Monaco, "Courier New", Helvetica
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display help message and exit
.SH CONFIGURATION
.B yclock
can be customized using a configuration file. The application searches for configuration files in the following order:
.IP 1. 4
.I ~/.yclock.conf
.IP 2. 4
.I ~/.config/yclock/yclock.conf
.IP 3. 4
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/yclock/yclock.conf
.PP
Configuration file format (key = value):
.TP
.B background = \fI#RRGGBB\fR
Background color in RGB hex format (e.g., #24273a)
.TP
.B foreground = \fI#RRGGBB\fR
Foreground color for text and clock hands in RGB hex format (e.g., #cad3f5)
.TP
.B second_hand = \fI#RRGGBB\fR
Second hand color in RGB hex format (e.g., #ed8796)
.TP
.B mode = \fIanalog|digital\fR
Clock mode, either "analog" or "digital" (default: analog)
.TP
.B width = \fINUMBER\fR
Window width in pixels (default: 164)
.TP
.B height = \fINUMBER\fR
Window height in pixels (default: 164)
.TP
.B font = \fINAME\fR
Font name for digital clock (optional). Examples: Menlo, Monaco, Courier
.TP
.B show_in_dock = \fItrue|false\fR
Show application in Dock and Cmd+Tab switcher (default: false). When false, the app runs as an accessory and doesn't appear in the Dock or application switcher.
.SH KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS
When the clock window is active:
.TP
.B ⌘D
Toggle between digital and analog modes
.TP
.B ⌘F
Toggle between normal and full-screen modes
.TP
.B ⌘S
Toggle seconds display on/off
.TP
.B ⌘Q
Quit the application
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Start in digital mode with seconds:
.B yclock \-\-digital \-\-seconds
.TP
Start in analog mode (default):
.B yclock \-\-analog
.TP
Use a custom font for digital clock:
.B yclock \-\-digital \-\-font-name Menlo
.TP
Use a font with spaces in the name:
.B yclock \-\-font-name "Courier New" \-\-seconds
.TP
Show the app in Dock and Cmd+Tab:
.B yclock \-\-show-in-dock
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.yclock.conf
User configuration file
.TP
.I ~/.config/yclock/yclock.conf
XDG configuration file
.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/yclock/yclock.conf
XDG configuration file (if XDG_CONFIG_HOME is set)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
If set, yclock will look for configuration files in
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/yclock/yclock.conf
.SH AUTHORS
AUTHORS_FILE_CONTENTS
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/skybert/yclock/issues
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xclock (1)
.PP
Project homepage: https://github.com/skybert/yclock
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2025. Licensed under the Apache License 2.0.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
